# Assignment 3

[Link to Shiny (code in 'assignment3.rmd')](https://dalyons.shinyapps.io/assignment3/)

On the present assignment, I aimed to allow user to visually navigate different distributions of wealth across year for countries. My story was not to be linear, but rather encourage exploration. I hoped to make this easy by reactively generating year selection so that it would change to reflect the year availability per country, but unfortunately I had to abandon this function in favor of coding those contingiences to show up myself. However, this feature broke down after too many iterations, so I have only included it for countries up to Brazil. In the future I would like to troubleshoot these issues further.

I was not able to generate effective bar graphs, as I had hoped to with each bar representing the size of that economic group's share of overall wealth. However, I was able to create dynamic tables that do provide this information, albeit in a less presentable format. I am hoping to troubleshoot this with you in office hours or somewhere similar, as I genuinely would like to complete this app will full visual functionality.

The distribution of wealth is something that is often hidden from public view, with extreme wealth and extreme poverty often overshadowing the actual distribution. However, it is hard to have an accurate and truthful barometer of who holds the majority of wealth in a country -- in many cases, more than half of the wealth is controlled by the richest 20% while the poorest 20% control maybe 5% of the wealth. When we explore the distribution of wealth, we see how hierarchical a society is with regards to class. Being able to compare multiple datapoints for a single country -- achieved here through either text entry or choosing from a dropdown menu (ideally this menu would change reactively and only show year values with data attached to them -- this is the biggest issue with usability of this app) -- shows how hierarchy changes over time, and is particularly interesting for countries such as Russia that previous ly had non-capitalist economic systems. Comparing Russian data for 1988 and 1993 shows the amount of wealth controlled by the highest 20% leaping form 34% to 53%! While table allows for comparing easy-to-interpret raw numerical data, a bar chart would be ideal for showing spatial tradeoffs between the amount of wealth different groups control. By comparing the bars for Russia in 1988 vs. in 1993, we would be able to see the bar for the highest 20% rise as the bars for the second lowest 20% and middle 20% lower. This is a more objective visual criteria than a pie chart, but maintains its proportional view.

As previously stated, this project requires a lot of improvement and an increasing understanding of reactivity and dynamic UI. However, I believe that it is conceptually sound and displays an understanding of how to present complex information in an approachable way. I look forward to receiving your feedback and making revisions as I move toward the goal of enacting my ideal visualization of wealth distributions.
